Title: Need advice on dorms

Post: Hi guys, I'm an incoming freshman and need some advice on dorms. Generally, how are they?

When should I apply for housing to get a room without any issues?

Which is better, honors housing or an LLC (cs)?

Any insight is appreciated. Thank you

Comments:

You wll live in the University Commons as a 1st year. 

  
All the rooms are 3 individual bedrooms (your own), 3 sinks, 1 toilet, and 1 shower. 

  
I only lived in LLC for Mech and you'll most likely live in Adormea Hall or Residence Hall West (Old name) 

  
It is the biggest out of them all and it is close to the dining hall and 5 minute walk to campus. 

  
Some honors are also in the West, but I'm not sure. The one that is closest to classes is Sirius Hall (Or Residence Hall South)

  
You'll also automatically get a meal plan (all 1st years need to get it) 

  
Hope this helps!v

Thank you so much!

Do all freshmen have to live in university commons? I was under the impression that there was a separate hall for collegium v honors students.

Yes, ALL students live in university commons. Honors are located in Sirus hall. If you choose LLC, you’re major will be with your floor. For me last year, 2nd floor was all engineering students and only engineering. At that time 4th and 5th floor was honors but they might change it a bit.

Just a disclaimer, people can bring friends to the dorms, even opposite sex and the sound barrier is bad (cuz it’s literally connected from 1 to another) last year one of my roommates without our permission a girl came over (I’m a boy) and they just did s*x multiple times in the semester, so hopefully you don’t get like these roommates

utd students have sex?

Well my roommate in my freshmen year did so

How long ago was that

2024 Spring

That's great to hear, thank you!

def best freshman dorms in all of the US. the dorms at utd are individual rooms and you only share a shower, toilet, sink area (you have your own sink) and living room space

I would say apply as quick as you can because that determines your priority for housing for the next year!

To answer your question about when to apply - the priority deadline is April 15. Make sure to get your application in by then!

The dorms aren’t too bad. Every has a private within a suite with 2 other roommates. There’s a room with a toilet and a separate room with a shower in the suite. The private are kinda cramped but it’s not too bad. Especially if you have your bed lofted up. Everyone has their own sink and there’s a common area with a decent enough couch. There’s a kitchen downstairs you can use (don’t cook meat on the stove unless you know how. someone filled my building with smoke trying to cook a steak) there’s also a ping pong table and some pool tables in the dorm lobby. The laundry can be annoying if you do it on weekends but it’s not impossible you’ll just likely have to wait a little bit for people to get their clothes out of the machines