Title: Which dorm/housing should I choose?

Post: Incoming freshman here, I received an offer for special housing priority, but I have no idea what the housing situation is at utd. Any recommendations?

Comments:

So the special housing priority means little to me if I’m just going to be living in the dorms

Not national merit scholar, but top 10% and I got the money from that

Freshmen get housing application priority, despite that you're restricted to residence hall for your first year. Not really sure why but I assume its so housing can get y'all sorted since most incoming freshmen aren't going to be requesting specific roommates/have more logistically intensive needs.

&amp;#x200B;

With that said, for your second year forward CCH (Canyon Creek Heights) are basically just slightly nicer dorms and UV (University Village) are literally apartments. And since you'll be an existing resident you'll get housing application priority again.

The freshman commons are great. Especially if you apply to live in an LLC (Living Learning Community, you’ll be housed with people with similar majors as you). 

For your second year and on both UV and CCH are good honestly. Stayed in UV and even with 4 roommates it was great. Quiet aside from the occasional volleyball players/random swimmers. CCH is a bit more private I guess? Had a friend who stayed there and she said similar things to what I mentioned about UV. 

Avoid Northside (closest off-campus option) unless you want to experience that unhinged “college experience” to the max. All the weed-smoking, party-throwing, and apparently non-degree-seeking fun you can (or can’t) handle. Or if you can afford a 1BR there.

I would personally recommend against UV.  My experience there was very poor.  My sinks never drained and I didn't have hot water in the shower for the later half of the year.  Yes I complained, no they didn't fix it.  My washer was flooding and wouldn't drain when I moved in as well and that took over 2 months to get fixed.  Loud neighbors (though obviously that depends on the year).  The pool filled with leaves and turned green, and they never cleaned it until I was about to move out.  Also they will send inspectors into your unit to make sure you're following dorm rules.  That being said my rent after stipend was around $400 a month for a single so hard to beat that price.

Yeah it’s mainly the price that had me all good with UV. But I also never had any maintenance problems or just problems in general. 

My main issue now at Northside (I’m applying for on-campus hosing a soon as I can though lol) is trying to get ANYTHING resolved. Our refrigerator broke and it took 4 weeks to fix it. This was after I had switched rooms twice ($500 each time) because the roommates were unbearable. Smoking, drinking, having 5+ people over all the damn time. 

Unless you’re willing to pay the fee they want you to attempt and “resolve” it which doesn’t work unless the rules they so effortlessly sprinkle in the lease were actually enforced in any damn way. They kept saying unless I could provide evidence of everything, there was nothing they could do. As if it’s my job to enforce my own lease? 

 In any on-campus housing, there are checks, right? Every month or so they make sure shit is in working order between housemates. In Northside, you might as well shoot the person and get on about your life unless you’re willing to let them suck you dry.

Idk I never lived with roommates again after escaping the dorms lol.  The people I know who live at Northside went there as a 4 man unit so they have had a pretty nice time. It's more expensive but it's furnished and nicer.  Feels like a real apartment rather than either a jail cell or a shit hole in the bad part of town

Well they probably had a good time BECAUSE they were a unit. If you leave it up to chance you will not be happy lol. If you do get someone nice you’re lucky tbh. That’s what most peoples complaint is here anyways. Not the building or the rooms/amenities….it’s the people.

Well yeah...

Your mom's

UT Dallas housing is expensive because they don't have many shared living options and because of the Dallas housing market.

For individual housing, on-campus is a bargain.

If you want any price flexibility, independent landlords with multiple roommates can meet any budget.

That said, you get a ton more space at UTD than at any other school.

Rental market right now is insane, especially for the "B class" apartments that most students would try to rent locally.

Other universities have rooms with multiple bunk beds. It looks like it's our time.

Just don't do South.  It was the shittiest one, old and the kitchen didn't work, and they shut off power over Christmas so you can't stay and you have to make sure having power off for a few months won't hurt any of your stuff.

Will they still do this winter of this year? Why was South the only hall they did maintenance on?

It's just how the power works there apparently.  No idea what they are doing this year, go ask your RA

I won a certain scholarship that forces me to stay in South. I am incoming freshmen. I don't have an RA yet. Could you tell me what makes South bad so I can be prepared

Literally described it in my op.