Title: Housing Questions

Post: Hey guys, the last question I found about residency was posted about 4 years ago, so I thought I would re-ask this question to see if anything changed. I'm an incoming freshmen, and am wondering if I should stay in the honors dorm, the living learning community, or a campus apartment. My friend from high school wants to split an apartment with me, he's going to be a freshman as well, but I believe that it would be better to stay in the dorm and have an easier time making new friends. One thing I heard about the living learning community is that you can get closer to professors and potentially research opportunities. As a computer science major, this would interest me as well. Yet I do not want to be stuck with only computer science majors, and like a bit of diversity as well. Thanks for your opinions on this matter in advance!

Comments:

I have no idea how dorms work, so are the dorms, at least on the same floor, are co-ed? And how much do you stand to gain from LLC activities, e.g. getting closer to professors etc.

Is the LLC open only to freshmen? As I currently live in Austin, I would stay on campus for all 4 years. Do you move around each year to another dorm or apartment?

Yes, the LLC is only open to freshmen. And in response to the above comment, your PA won't harass you about not going to events. I can't speak for the CS LLC, but the Pre-Health LLC arranges quite a few events such as review sessions with professors, a dinner with the dean and other faculty, as well as plenty of events for residents to meet each other and have fun (movie nights, board game nights).

You wouldn't necessarily need to stay on campus all 4 years. Apartments off campus range from cheaper to more expensive than on campus &amp; dorms. Personally I have moved from dorm to apartment to another apartment (just renewed my current lease though)

No one has mentioned it yet but unless you count Northside as a campus apartment (they're not owned by UTD or University Village), freshmen can't live in the apartments. The dorms really aren't that bad, they're kind of like staying in a decent hotel for a couple months. I will agree with the others that the internet is frustrating but they are upgrading it this year so don't take that too seriously. I honestly think living in the dorms is the most appropriate option for freshmen as it will give you a chance to become familiar with the campus and a much larger opportunity to make friends. There's always events happening and some great study rooms in the dorms. 

EDIT: Forgot to mention I can't speak for LLC or Honors, but from what I've heard the experience can differ on an individual basis.

The internet at the dorms isn't incredibly horrible. It's about 5mbps, which is good enough if you're on Ethernet and shit if you're exclusively on your own wifi network. (Also, Office of Info Tech is upgrading the internet to be about 20mbps per person over this summer)

I'm a CS major who is a heavy internet gal so, it's just me.

I mean, 5 mbps is pretty pathetic when Northside gets like 60 times that speed, and how Spectrum's lowest package is 100 mbps. Living off campus meant that the internet has become far better and I can actually reliably do online gaming now.

My daughter is a freshman CS student and she lives in the honor dorm.  She has made many friends there from all over the US.  Most of her dorm friends are not CS/Eng but are premed.  She does have CS friends from her classes. It is a different crowd than the CS LLC.

As an incoming freshman you will have 3 options, 1) University Commons (UC) 2) off campus apartments 3)the CS LLC

I dont have any experience with off campus apartments so I'm going to let someone with experience tell you about that. 

Im a freshman in the CS LLC and I love it. UC is ok, the rooms are a bit small, you can live in them but don't expect a ton of space. In the dorm itself you have nowhere to cook outside of a microwave so the dining hall / on campus restaurants are going to be how you eat. Dining Hall West (DHW) is ok, not great. If you can get good food its pretty good but usually you end up with dry overcooked stuff. Breakfast sucks in DHW and DHW doesn't open till 10:30 on weekends. You get 1 meal exchange a day where you can trade a meal at DHW for selected on campus restaurant. 

Now on to the LLC. As with most things you have to use the LLC to get something out of it. If you're just going to sit in your room and never go out to common areas the LLC will do nothing for you. you are probably better off getting an apartment. I am not a social person, I had to force myself out of my room and down to the common area down the hall, when I did it was great. There is almost always someone in the area, working in homework, playing video games or working on some other project. In the common area I've restored an Apple II plus and am working on restoring an on oscilloscope. The people down there help and everyone has there own area of expertise. We have a few people with Hardware experience, some with assembly, some JS, every area of CS you can find someone. We help each other on assignments and personal projects the like. All you have to do is hang out in the common area. 

As with anything your milage may very, these are my experiences, hope it helps

As a CS major in the honors dorm, id reccomend the honors dorm. "honors housing" just means you'll be living in
 res hall south, where ~1/2 the students will be honors. The rest are non honors. It's really chill, and I feel like having a physically smaller dorm allows it to feel more tightknit. There's more lobby per capita so more people hang there, you'll know every PA, things like that. If you're worried about a lack of CS majors, don't be. The only downside is it's older than the other dorms (2009), so we had a hot water problem for a day, and a few other small issues

Honestly I wouldn't stay in a dorm and you can't rent on campus apartments.

Dorms are 770 a month but dont have have personal kitchens and a rather shabby "living room"/ common room. It's a waste of money when you can live in an apartments  off campus that you can split for 400/ 500 a month. Food is cheap and so is cost of living. 

The dining hall is absolutely atrocious at utd, not worth $1600. 

You can still make plenty of friends not living on campus by hanging around the Plinth and talking to other freshmen in class. Resident Hall west also has a group of people that plays smash, and theres a League club on campus as well if you like video games.

Not sure if anyone had mentioned this, but I believe some of the honors scholarships (like Terry Scholars) require you to live in the honors dorms if you live on campus I'm pretty sure.
The dorms aren't all that great but they're better than most college dorms, and they're really convenient. The meal plan sucks but you have your own room also being on campus is nice so you don't have to deal with finding parking every day. Also, if you're wanting to live in the on campus apartments the following year that helps with your priority.
Definitely strong positives and negatives for each choice.