Title: How is housing this bad???

Post: I’m a freshman and I was hoping to live on campus again next year. I was looking forward to living in UV since I’ve been pretty happy with my dorm this year. While my groups priority could’ve been better, our appointment was this morning so I thought our chances were pretty good since it only opened yesterday. Well, we opened up the room selection to find out that there’s no rooms left in UV or Canyon Creek and hardly anything left in Northside. We managed to grab an apartment in Northside but it might be too expensive for some of us so we might have to split up and some in my group aren’t from the area. So, our plans might be ruined if Northside doesn’t work out.  

How does this school not have enough room for everyone who wants to live on campus to actually do that? With the way priority works I don’t even understand how I’d ever be able to get an apartment in UV or CC in the future, if I even stay here for junior year. I’ve never heard of another college having this issue it’s ridiculous. 

Does anyone have recommendations for cheaper, nearby, off campus apartments just in case Northside doesn’t work for us?

Comments:

Oh wow, I'm so sorry you're struggling with this too. It would be a lot, especially at the end of your first year of college. I'm looking into places but from what I've heard Northside is overpriced for what it is, I could be wrong though.

Northside is extremely hit or miss, have an even amount of friends who love and hate it. But thank God the school is building that museum by JSOM, this was surely the best use of their limited real estate

To be fair I'm pretty sure the collection donation was hinged on the school constructing a new building to house it for view but it does speak to the school's awful management in general

Off campus places on the east, are pretty decent I hear. Less expensive and a lot bigger and better than Northside. Pretty safe also. You can look into Estates of Richardson, Marquis, Pradera. They're also in the bus route if you do not have cars atm

I’ve looked into Marquis a bit an it looks pretty good. Thanks for the other reccs I’ll definitely look into them!

Not sure what Northside’s rates are but I would recommend looking at Post Eastside. It’s not extremely cheap… but you’ll get much more for the price than with Northside’s shoddy construction and veneer floors

Yeah it’s kinda ridiculous, but the school doesn’t care if they’re taking on more than they can fit, my old school required you to live on campus so they were more selective with admissions to ensure they had enough space

If they build more housing on campus, where will all the parking lots go?

Instead of building flat parking lots they can build parking structures they dont take as much space

Or maybe parking lots for 5 floors and dorms above it…?

Wait yea that too if they just try im sure theyll see that there r so many options

UTDallas isn't the only uni with housing problems atm. I went to OkState for my first two college semesters and the housing was bad there as well, like most of the student housing was being given to refugees instead of students who were paying to be there.  
Sorry your experience has been so bad though, I hope these universities figure it out soon.

Same at UNT with so many freshmen coming on campus to the point that no one other than them have dorms.

Thanks for the offer! We’ve figured out the situation so I’m good on housing now. I’m sure there’s gonna be a lot of people willing to take that offer though lol

What did you decide on for housing?

My room selection time was 11:23 AM yesterday. Everything was gone.

My room selection time was 11:23 AM yesterday. Everything was gone.

i’m an incoming freshman, would this circumstance apply to me too

No this is for after your freshman year. Something to look forward to.

Sign up for housing right now if you are an incoming freshman. Your priority number for housing next year will be based on how early you sign up for housing this year. Which means if you want to avoid being homeless like all the people in these posts, sign up now and get a good priority number

The priority number isn't random?

No it's not random. Your individual priority number is based on when you signed up for housing as an incoming freshman/whenever you joined campus housing, and your roommate group priority number is the average of your individual priority numbers

weird, one of my roomate said he signed up for housing early but he got 1500

They probably weren't as early as they thought they were then since I was 1186, and I have a couple of friends who ranged from the 800s to 300s

Marquis at Waterview is close by and rent was ~800 with 2 other people in a 3 bed. Only about 2 min further from campus than Northside and easily close enough to bike or board

Same situation,Didn't get a chance to get my room next year. I was really looking forward to live with my group but :/ sucks

**UTD northside 4x2 sublet LOWER rent than most**

Currently looking for a subletter from MAY 2024 to JULY 25th 2024

fully furnished bedroom and bathroom that you share but there is no one in the adjacent room so it would be all yours, preferably looking for a girl, there is one girl living her during that time.

very clean and neat apartment and kitchen, currently no pets, not opposed.

rent is around $976.17 at the beginning of each month. you will cover May, June and July. this does not include parking at Northside

please reach out to me if you are interested or know someone who is.

Be careful at Northside. My son is having a lot of problems with the payments/leasing office, and they won’t call us back!!

Check out my recent post, private home, close to UTD and a great rent $900 - 

[https://www.reddit.com/r/utdallas/comments/1dw0ki8/900\_private\_bd\_shared\_bathroom\_annual\_lease\_for\_a/](https://www.reddit.com/r/utdallas/comments/1dw0ki8/900_private_bd_shared_bathroom_annual_lease_for_a/)     Look up my post, my son's lease is available for 24-25 academic year. Annual Lease. Home is on Vinecrest Ln, less than 1 mi from UTD activity center. Rent is $900 and all utilities incl except electricity which may be $50-$55 per person. Home is 3bd/2ba so you'll have your own bedroom and bathroom is shared with one other person