Hey friends, welcome to Chai and Coaching. Rob here. We're going to do another quick housing tour. We are at the Canyon Creek Heights apartment on campus here at UTD. We're going to give you a full tour of this on-campus housing option and compare it with off-campus and it's going to be really helpful. Check it out.

This is going to be our tour guides. Go ahead and introduce yourselves.

I'm Yes and I'm doing my master's in computer science here, living at Canyon Creek. Hello everyone. I'm Shel and I'm pursuing a master's in computer science here at UTD and I'm living at Valencia. Hey, my name is Neil and I'm a graduate student of computer science and I live here at Canyon Creek Heights North. And where are you guys from? We are all from Ahmedabad, Gujarat. Awesome. Well, let's start the tour.

We are here at the Canyon Creek Heights North apartment. Can you tell us about Canyon Creek? It's our on-campus apartments where we have two parts — Canyon Creek North and South. The main biggest benefit here is we live on campus so we don't have to worry about buses or anything. We can simply walk in 10 minutes to our place and we also have Comet Cards which help a lot — you will be at your class in 2 minutes. Utilities and electricity are all covered in rent, that's also a good point.

Canyon Creek Heights North and South are both especially for graduate students and PhD students. So if anyone is coming here for the first time and thinking about on-campus housing, only graduate and PhD students stay over here. How old is this building? It's just 2 or 3 years old. So it's a very new construction.

There are different types of apartments — we are living in a two-bedroom shared apartment, and there are also individual rooms available in South. The greatest benefit here is that even the University Village apartments are totally unfurnished, but these are furnished apartments. You get everything and you just have to take your clothes and come to stay. This is a completely furnished apartment — all light bills, electricity bills, Wi-Fi bills, everything is covered. Water is also covered. We don't need to arrange for anything else when we first come here. We just take our bags and our clothes. Plus for laundry, we have a laundry room downstairs and it's free — it's all included.

So tell us about the costs of rent here at Canyon Creek. The cost of living here at Canyon Creek Heights is around $2,450 per semester, which comes down to around $490 to $500 per month. It is inclusive of all the amenities like Wi-Fi, electricity, internet, plus laundry — everything included. So we don't have to worry about anything. Even if you go off campus you might find better deals under $300 or $350, but after all you have to pay for utilities separately, so it almost balances things out. After including all the amenities off-campus, it comes to around $400 or $450 for a two-bedroom with two shared bedrooms. So it's ultimately not that costly.

Plus here we get two rooms, so if your roommates are having a party and you want to study, you can go right out and study. There are study lounges in the building, which is very helpful. Every month they do at least one or two events just to get together and get the community people close to each other. They include free food, coffee, and all beverages.

As I mentioned earlier, I used to live at Valencia and I have been staying here for 2 to 3 days now. One advantage I have noticed here is that there are separate sinks apart from the bathrooms. So if one person has occupied the bathroom and another wants to use the sink, they don't have to struggle and ask them to come out. In the long run, if you are living here for 6 or 7 months, it's a good thing to have a separate sink.

Now about the safety — it's a completely secure place here because without your Comet Card you cannot access the building. You have to use your Comet Card twice to enter. If you look out the window, every half hour there is a police car patrolling around. So it's very safe here. The Comet Card gives special access only to those people who stay here, so no one other than residents can enter the building without the Comet Card.

Were all of your roommates Indian? No. One of our roommates is American, another is French, and my roommate Neil is Indian. In the other room there is one local guy from San Antonio, Texas who is pursuing his PhD here, and another guy is an exchange student from France who is studying finance. So we are two Indians and two foreigners. Living on campus gives you a bigger chance of staying with people from different places. When we go roam around the lobbies we definitely find someone who is not from the same country, from a different culture. When we try to engage with them we find new cultures and new things we come to know from their country. Even at events they host here, we meet a lot of people — we have met German and Australian people, become friends with them, hang out, chill in the lobby, and talk together.

Comparing Canyon Creek to off-campus options — off-campus housing may not be as safe because here there is a gated community and not all off-campus housing has a gated community. Here you need to use the Comet Card to get inside the main gate of Canyon Creek. That kind of security is not obviously there in off-campus housing. There are a few options like Valencia and others that have gated communities, but apart from that, security plus constant patrolling on campus — even when I've come from the library at night, police are patrolling. That might not be the case in off-campus housing. I feel totally safe here.

Now you guys are moving out this week. Tell us about that and where you're going and why. We are going to Valencia because the main reason is we have found some good friends who are also Gujarati and we have a great time with them. We enjoy our stuff — same coursework, everything. Plus Valencia is cheaper and Canyon Creek is going to increase the rent to $500, so it will come to around $590 per month. Our shared option was the cheapest one because if you go for an individual room the cost goes much higher.

Any other final tips or thoughts about Canyon Creek? If you are someone coming here for the first time and worried about a new place, I think this is the best option because after staying here for a while you can explore other off-campus places and then choose whichever you like best. One of the best parts here is that you have a peer advisor. If you are new and have any conflicts with roommates, you can go to the peer advisor and they will try to fix things among your roommates. Plus they also do a roommate agreement covering things like thermostat temperature and shared responsibilities.

One important point: if you want to try Canyon Creek and are coming for the first time, please sign a lease for only 6 months. After 6 months you may find better off-campus options, just like them. If you have a 12-month lease, you will have to bear the extra expenses from the rent increase. So sign for a lease time of only 6 months. Alright guys, great advice. Thank you so much. Thank you.
