Title: What are dorms/housing like on campus? What do I need to bring?

Post: Hi guys, I recently decided to commit to UTD for fall 2021, but it will be a while before I can try and visit campus because my dad has an arm surgery coming up. I'm looking into things that I will need to bring when I stay on campus, such as small appliances, furniture, etc. I also have a few questions:

* How spacey are the individual rooms in the dorms?
* What are the pros and cons of 3 bedroom dorm suites vs things like the university village or other housing?
* Which housing options would you recommend most?
* What are the best things you can recommend for me to bring/know before I go?
* Is there any helpful advice you'd like to share about anything in particular?

Thank you!

Comments:

1. Individual rooms are spacious for college dorms. Each has space for a twin-sized bed, a desk, and a dresser (all included). University Housing has a virtual tour and specs available on its [website](https://www.utdallas.edu/housing/uc/).
2. Incoming freshmen (and only freshmen) who choose to live on campus must live in University Commons (the residence halls). Compared to other housing, Canyon Creek Heights North and South are very comparable to the residence halls in terms of space (just being slightly larger due to having a kitchen in each unit), and the apartments in University Village are just what you'd expect for a college apartment: not too big, but just big enough for a living room and maybe (depending on floorplan) a dining nook. There is more variety in upperclassmen housing; if you wish to live alone or only with one roommate, there are 1x1 and 2x2 units for that in UV and CCHS.
3. If you're into a more social scene, Northside (technically off campus) tends to contain more of a "college life" atmosphere. (The following only applies to upperclassmen.) If you would prefer not having to deal with furniture during move-in/move-out and don't mind a 10 minute walk to campus every day, Canyon Creek Heights is just for you. Otherwise, University Village should work if you want to stay on campus and don't mind the issues that come with apartments built over 20 years ago.
4. When you move in, you'll have the option to rent a fridge and microwave with the rest of your roommates, but you can definitely bring both and coordinate other things to bring after University Housing confirms your roommate assignments. You'll want to bring basic necessities (clothes, etc.), sheets for a twin-sized bed, some small furniture like a desk lamp (if that's your thing) and maybe snacks if you don't get tired of eating dining hall food. Make sure to coordinate with your roommates to determine who will bring cleaning supplies or how you'll all split the cost.
5. If you browse long enough, you'll run into horror stories about University Housing (mainly with older apartments in UV and the dining hall) and Northside (known for notoriously inept management). Completely anecdotally speaking, on average, people living on campus tend to me more satisfied than people living off campus if they want to be more involved.

Thank you! I’ll keep all of this in mind

UV is soooo much better than the dorms. If you are a first-year, you have to do the dorms and have to sign up for the meal plan, which is way overpriced (like $10/meal) and not very good (I'd get a little bit of everything on my plate and only end up eating like 1/3. I hated everything but their fruit-infused water. Only ate like there twice a week and 10 times a week is the lowest they offer). 

My UV apartment has a giant closet, its own private sink space, a good kitchen, and a living room with enough area for a couch, tv, and kitchen table. You are sharing the shower and toilet with 1 other person instead of 2. You and your roommates have your own washer/dryer in the apt instead of lugging everything to a community one. The only benefit of the dorms over UV is the dorms have a walk-in shower, which I prefer much better than a bath tub shower. 

Honestly, I really enjoyed my dorm (minus the food). I just think UV is vastly superior.

do you know where I can buy second hand furniture (chair, table)? I recently got accommodation at UV 2x2b apartment.


The dorms are spacious enough, and as a freshman that really will be your only option. It's nice having your own room in the suite, which is something not a lot of dorms have, but the walls are super duper thin. I could hear my roommate having a conversation at normal volume nearly word for word. I suggest bringing good noise cancelling headphones or earplugs if noise bothers you. I also suggest bringing a rug (or maybe 2) to the dorms bc the floor is linoleum and that shit gets cold in the morning.
As for the pros and cons, they don't matter that much bc you don't really have the choice between dorms and uv housing. You're going to have to live in a dorm freshman year and after freshman year you will have to live elsewhere, whether that be UV, CC, Northside or off campus. I cannot say much about CC or Northside but UV is pretty standard as apartments go, though some of the floorplans are kind of wack. You only kind of get to choose what you live in when you apply for UV so its really luck of the draw, but I got stuck with a segmented carpeted bathroom for 2 years sooooo.
Beyond the earplugs/rug advice, get yourself a sturdy laundry basket, and keep breakfast food in your dorm so you dont use up a meal swipe on it. You have to have a meal plan freshman year in the dorms, and i reccomend getting the lowest one you think you can swing. I had the 14 personally and theoretically, thats lunch and dinner every day if u eat your own breakfast. I rlly dont reccommend getting anything more than that. So definitely bring something you can eat for breakfast. If its cereal, you may want to get disposable bowls. There is no good place in the dorms to do dishes. The only sinks in the dorm are small bathroom sinks, and its fine washing a couple forks or a mug but any more than like one standard size plate will get very annoying.

Oh I didn’t even think about cooking yet! I like to eat pretty healthy, mostly small filling breakfast, fruits and veggies for snack throughout the day, and good dinner. Would it be a hassle to eat that way? 

Is the fresh food from the meal plan good, because from what you’ve said it kind of feels like it would be difficult to eat the way I do right now. Is there a fridge in the suites?

Also thanks for the headphones and rug tip, I’ll definitely keep that in mind!

You can rent a mini fridge and a microwave or buy your own. I'd reccomend renting the fridge as most apts, university or otherwise will have a fridge but some off campus wont have a microwave so renting/buying thats really your call. UV apts do have microwaves but idk about canyon creek or northside. I dont think that will be too hard to do the dining hall usually has fresh(ish) fruit (generally not the greatest quality all around unfortunately) and the 883 bus goes to walmart 2x a week so u can get veggies and fruits to keep in your fridge there i think you'll be fine.

Ok, thanks for your detailed reply! Kind of a bummer about the poor quality of fruits at the dining hall, but I'll find a good solution once I get there.